9:00 a.m. in Shanghai Shenzhen and here
in Hong Kong you're watching the China
show. I'm Y Ivon man with Stephen Engel.
[music] We're coming down to the open of
markets in greater China. Our top
stories this morning, Asian stocks
rebound, tracking gains on Wall Street
on easing tensions in the Middle East
and the revival of the AI trade. [music]
Open AAI follows confidentially for an
IPO as it looks to join rivals tapping
public markets to fund ambitious growth
plans. Meanwhile, SpaceX's listing
[music] is said to be well
oversubscribed. And the Pentagon accuses
Alibaba, BU, and BYD [music]
of supporting the Chinese military,
calling them threats to US national
security.
[music]
All right. If you've been hiding under a
rock, uh, you missed yesterday. Maybe
it's almost like nothing quite happened,
right?
>> We couldn't hide yesterday.
>> Really couldn't hide. And today, all it
took was maybe just another 24 hours for
things to bounce back here again. I
think there's been news of of obviously
Open AI and about that IPO. And then you
have reports about Intel and and Google
chips and the like. That's really kind
of helping the whole AI trade once
again.
>> Yeah. I know again the tensions between
Israel and Iran kind of coming down a
little bit obviously after they fired
back and forth retaliatory strikes uh
the day before. So again cooler heads in
the Middle East, cooler heads perhaps on
the markets as well.
>> Yeah, cooler in the markets for now. Uh
whether this is just a technical, you
know, healthy reset as some have called
it. Um or is there signs of, you know,
more red flags to come is certainly one
thing we're going to be debating about
with all of our guests here this
morning. And then you take a look at the
data, right? It's not just the
fundamentals of some of these stocks,
but also when it comes to China, th
those trade numbers that are coming
through later on today. I mean, we're
still going to see, right, this export
engine quite strong because of AI.
>> You're also going to see though import
booms because the first four months of
the year, we had double-digit gains.
Again, uh there's commodity price
increases. So that has added to that but
also the AI component imports as China
is really doubling down tripling down on
its AI ambitions and its domestic uh
innovation if you will. So there's going
to be aberrations in these numbers and
we're going to talk them through uh in a
little bit the aberrations because a
year ago is the base effect. That's when
the trade war was launched and US
exports or exports to the US from China
dropped 35%. So there's going to be some
aberrations there.
>> Yeah. I mean you're seeing operations in
the market as well right that we saw one
of the biggest drops since March when it
came to Asian stocks and now we're
coming off that uh quite substantially
here take a look at how uh the Cosby and
Taiwan coming online so I mean obviously
you know we're not recovering fully just
yet especially when it came to the Cosby
here we saw losses as much as 8% uh for
that benchmark we're coming back with 3%
gains right now in Soul Taipei is up
about 1% as well so it is you know
better than yesterday but certainly
you're not quite you know there's still
a lot lingering questions out there but
at least the chip space right you are
seeing the likes of SK Heinix is is
rebounding some 6% Samsung also close to
3% gains there uh TSMC is joining in on
that phrase so uh more chip news as we
talked about here and obviously Tensson
also is is going around a fundraising as
well
>> yeah that's right so I mean again Asia
falling off the springboard of the
NASDAQ 100 was up 1.6% 6% overnight. So
that gave a good indication that Asia
might bounce back. But we started to see
uh some of those Asian markets pair
those losses uh in late in the session
yesterday.
>> Yeah. And and where does that leave EMFX
and what we're seeing here when it comes
to the dollar, right? Because that
really has been the dominant story here
when it comes to this part of the world.
And really, you know, the the oil and
winners and losers are really quite
apparent here right now. You still
continue to see that strength when it
comes to the wand. So that the dollar is
softening just a bit here. Uh dollar
Yemen B has been pretty stable at 678
levels. We're still holding at 160 for
dollar yen here right now. So not much
movement really uh this morning during
the Asia session, but overnight uh there
was that story about the Pentagon adding
some Chinese companies uh to a list.
This has been there has been a list. Uh
some have some companies have been put
back on this list, you know. So, we
we'll parse through kind of what we we
heard here, but the likes of Baba BU um
have been accused of of aiding the
Chinese military and we did see some of
those ADRs fall overnight.
>> Yeah. I mean, the who's who of the AI
movement in China, also pharmaceutical
company, Wooi Attek, uh the chipmaker,
CXMT, Yangs of Memory, uh Tencent was
added a year ago or so. So, it's with
BYD and Alibaba and BU added. And
there's a lot of intrigue, too, is the
timing of this list because it it
briefly appeared in February and was
taken down really fast. Yeah. Uh, of
course, Trump was trying to get a
high-profile summit with Xiinping.
Whether that is a coincidence or not, we
don't know. But again, now a month after
that she Trump summit in Beijing, it's
back up.
>> Yeah. All right. Well, watch how the
China Tech plays uh fare there in the
face of that of course um new list. You
take a look at what what really has been
underpinning this rebound. And it really
has been news about Open AI. They filed
confidentially for an IPO and joining
its rivals in a race to tap public
markets to fund its growth plans. Now, a
potential listing could come by the end
of this year.
>> Yes. So, what does this mean? Well,
we're going to bring in Bloomberg's US
deals team editor, Michael Hya, joining
us now. So, there's the big question.
Michael, what does this say? What does
Open AI say about its plans? because
they filed a confidential IPO, but we
are hearing sources and also a statement
from OpenAI,
>> right? Um the the race is on with
anthropic. They're both headed to an
IPO.
>> Um the confidential filing, the process
of it is just that you file with the
SEC, a draft, which does not get
released to the public. The SEC reviews
it. there might be changes made in the
draft and then it flips publicly when
all that information is disclosed
[snorts]
and the IPO drive begins its sort of
final push. The um the thing I I think
what's um being said by open about was
pretty short. It was a a tweet really
and just said that they've submitted
their registration confidentially to the
SEC and they did it because it was going
to leak anyway. They thought they said
right. Um, one interesting thing in
timing in there, while Bloomberg has
reported later this year, um, OpenAI is
being very unspecific about the timing.
It says, uh, very specifically, we have
not decided on the timing yet, it may be
a while because there are things we want
to do that are likely easier as a
private company. That sounds a little
bit cryptic and inexact, and maybe
that's intentional.
>> Okay. So, so it's good to kind of see
through some of the cryptic messages
there. What what does it mean when it
comes to the race with Anthropic there?
Do you think there's enough investor
interest for both of these IPOs?
>> That's a great question. Um they're both
going to be, you know, multiple billions
raised in their IPOs. Um both are
valuations in their last funding rounds
approaching $1 trillion. That's a lot of
money in anybody's book. Um the exact
amount to be raised will be decided
later, of course, and that'll be much
later in the process. you know, perhaps
2 weeks or so before the actual um
listing itself. The um the appetite for
AI seems to be pretty bottomless as you
reported, you know, after a market dip
that it's already a bounce back now. Um
that follows anthropic filing last week
or saying I'm excuse me, saying it filed
confidentially last week and you know,
OpenAI today. Keep in mind SpaceX is in
this mix too. SpaceX is very much an AI
company now. And um there seems to be a
lot of interest. Don't forget that
Google just raised $85 billion as well,
>> right?
>> Um for its AA drive, AI drive. So
there's a lot going on. There's a lot of
money flowing into it. I you know, there
seems to be um a lot of gas pedal and
not a whole lot of break on it.
Well, Michael, let me ask you about that
because of course there were a lot of
predictions maybe the bubble had burst
on Friday with the blood bath on the
markets, but it was pretty short-lived
with the market kind of bouncing back.
How much will those I guess storm clouds
on the horizon give investors and these
you know potential issuances uh room for
pause?
>> I think there's always, you know, going
to be room for pause and some doubt. Um
but the overall direction seems to be
very positive and very much in the
direction that the companies want to go.
I I think with with anthropic versus
open AI in particular, there's going to
be the question of who goes first and
and what advantages who goes first and
who goes second gives each one of those
companies. Um the first one out of the
box is going to have to one disclose all
its financials to the competitor ahead
of time. They will also perhaps get
first uh dibs on the enthusiasm level of
investors. So there's a pool of
investors looking to invest in either
company. The first one out of the box is
going to be the one that you're going to
focus on most and the second one will
inevitably get a little bit less
attention. So whether who you know
whether who filed a week apart
confidentially makes a difference or
not. The the actual process ahead
doesn't really matter. Anyone could go a
week before the other, two weeks before
the other, or months or whatever. It's
it's it's the process we'll have to
decide as we go.
>> Michael, great to have you. Michael Hya
there, our US deals team editor. Uh
let's bring in uh George Esa topos now,
portfolio manager at Fidelity
International to talk us through I mean
these big IPOs that are happening in the
US. How do you think this is going to
really impact this part of the world?
>> Uh how's it going to impact this part of
the world? F first of all we are in a
once ina-lifetime capex cycle AI capex
cycle and that's always very very
important to sort of see to keep in mind
and as a result you know this has led to
global growth accelerating the US growth
is strong nominal growth is strong and
it is above trend what we have seen in
the past few days this volatility that
we have seen um to some extent it's a
you know you mentioned before is this a
healthy reset this is the you know we're
on that camp this has been um a healthy
reset and when it comes to the size of
these IPOs I'm probably going to mention
some things that are it's not original
sort of views but it's important to
remind these views you know issuance is
large but when it comes to looking at
this issuance from the from the from the
lens of look at the market cap of the US
equity market it is not that big um if
you look at it as a percentage of GDP
it's not that big and we have if
anything the the anomaly perhaps has
been what we have seen in the past few
years where IPO issuance and generally
generally speaking supply has not been
that high if anything now we're going
back to what the average has been of the
last 15, 20 years. And to me, the
interesting thing here is that if you
take a step back, what is happening is
that rates are high. Rates are no longer
zer, no longer near, you know, zero
interest rates and negative interest
rates. And this is having the
ramifications we're seeing now. The past
5 10 years at Fidelity every year, we've
been looking at the free float in in
public equity markets.
>> It's been coming lower and lower and
lower and lower, and we've always been
wondering where is this going to lead
to? But now we're seeing a reversal of
that. And why is that happening? Again,
rates are up. Debt fin the big debt
financing days might not be what it used
to be. And that's perhaps also why we
seeing what's going on in sort of, you
know, credit, you know, the the private
equity market, the private credit
market. But the IPO issuance is this is
back to the normal days. And if the
other sort of element here is also that
um you know this is also going to unlock
some sort of locked up money which which
can also sort of create sort of some
some um upside demand. And if again if
you look at you know from a demand
supply dynamics yes buybacks in the US
have come down quite a bit. The past 10
you know 5 10 years US has been the big
buyback market in the world. buyback
yield has come down but still if you if
you combine buybacks and M&A it still
outstrips um supply what does this all
mean for for Asian markets because I
know big circle back there but I think
it's important to set to set the
background
>> Asia North Asia Taiwan Korea and parts
of it China as well they sit at the
heart of the global AI capex cycle
>> buybacks what used to happen in the US
um all that cash flow now is going to
capex and all that capex is coming it's
coming to this part of the world So
strong tailwinds is is is all I see and
if anything healthy reset and probably a
nice opportunity for ones who had good
enough exposure in that part of the
market to actually be buying some of
that.
>> Is there a further reset one day of
selloff in the US is doesn't by my
characterization count as a reset. It's
maybe some profit taking and just kind
of a a reset of outlook but again it's
not a major correction.
>> Not a major correction. Again, you look
at Korean equities, there's still a sort
of a massive amount year to date and
that correction just a little blip in
the, you know, if you take a long
long-term chart, it it barely becomes
obvious. Could we see more further
correction? Yes. The question is what do
you do when there is a correction? Do
you panic and sell or do you see that as
an opportunity to buy? And from our
perspective, this is again it's a
healthy reset. Could we see a further
reset? Sure. Again, that become that
becomes an even healthier reset as as a
result. And then you know this is again
this this is a once in a-lifetime capex
cycle and as a result we still think
that this has legs
>> and h have you been adding exposure
>> um I can't comment about specific traits
but let's put it this way you know
yesterday potential might have been a
good day to add to add to some of the
names some of the exposures in the in
the AIC cycle
>> you mentioned about you know we're
launching out of this whole zer nerp
sort of era here right now and you
mentioned you know in what this could
mean was this new era for financials
Yes. Yeah.
>> Talk me through everything that's non AI
at the moment because I think we talk
about it too much.
>> But why do you think financials is now
the
>> trend? It's important to just not focus
on AI because there's other interesting
things happening in in the world and
again financials is one of them. So era
financials what does that mean? Um u
what I would typically refer all stars
are aligned when it comes to financials.
Um some structural some cyclical. What
are the structural? Again longer the
days of zero peripherates
are higher than the what they were. And
looking at what's going on in the US uh
jobs market for instance, you know, a
big nice surprise. The market sort of
repricing higher when it comes to rate.
You know, no more rate cuts now
potentially rate hikes. I would argue
that's a bit of a healthy situation, but
also it's great for banks. Um the other
thing deregulation, the US has had its
phase of deregulation for for some time.
Now a further you know with the one big
beautiful bill a bit sort of further
deregulation and also you could argue
the war is also more in the deregulation
camp. So benefits the US and if you look
at Europe, Europe for the past 10-15
years has been in a massive regulation
sort of phase that's now reversing. If
anything, if you look at um Europe for
instance, we've seen a big increase in
buybacks and dividends paid out. Even in
my home country, Greece until a year ago
there were the banks were not allowed to
pay dividends and buybacks. Now they
can. So these are the two structural
reasons. The cyclical reasons are curves
are starting at different different
speeds and uh different countries not
exactly sort of working kind of in
tandem but generally speaking sort of
steeper curves you look at Japan for
instance you know steeper curves and the
lending cycle again at different speeds
is improving you know we've said the
past 10 years since GFC corporates had
delivered households had delivered it's
the all the leverage has gone into
governments which means that now
potentially we could see households
starting to lever up again we could see
corporates starting to lever up This
would be a boost for financials and the
corporates are already releving not so
much the households but the corporates
are releving and one last thing Friday
what was the best performing sector
>> guessing
>> financials banks so also giving you some
nice diversification benefits
>> yeah all right George hold up that we'll
have more and some closing remarks from
George there George Estattopolis
portfolio manager at Fidelity he's
sticking around and we're counting down
the open of trade in Shanghai Shenzhen
and Hong Kong futures looking like this
here right now at a time when we are
seeing quite a bit of bounce back across
[music] risk assets here today. Futures
are slightly higher here this morning.
This is the China show.
[music]
Futures are pretty [music] flat here
this morning though. We were expecting
some sort of maybe uh some headwinds
here when it came to this. of course
blacklist from the Pentagon here on some
of the big tech firms in China. So that
might limit what sort of upside we could
see in China today. Steve,
>> yeah, that's right. I mean, the the
China story has been sort of taking a
back seat, not really because a lack of
uh relevance, but because of what's
happening uh with the US markets, what's
happening in the Middle East, but so
much of the global economy goes through
China right now. Let's bring back George
F. Stopoulos, portfolio manager at
Fidelity International. In the break, we
were talking about how China plays in
all this. We're getting trade numbers.
They've been sort of volatile because of
the trade war a year ago. So on the base
effects level, it's going to be a bit
distorted as well. But China's also
importing a lot more to fuel their own
AI ambitions. So what's your big take on
China right now?
>> I mean, China, if we go back to before
March, um I think but until then, we
were seeing some sort of a reflation
story in China. You were looking at the
CPI numbers and they were getting
stronger and stronger and stronger. Even
core CPI was getting stronger and then
you were also looking at PPI and this is
again before March PPI was also starting
to improve and industrial profitability
was starting to improve. So we were
seeing some sort of positive signs. Of
course then we had March um China of
course is not an oil exporter. it's an
old importer and and that has had some
somewhat of a ramification because China
has reduced some sort of to some extent
their import and that has had an impact
in the domestic economy because prices
have gone up but at the same time China
if you look at China of the past 10
years strategically China has really
managed to essentially diversify its
energy resources you know when I was
actually here
>> in March first week of March when all
the screens were red Korea was down 10%
and we discussing about China and will
China suffer because China gets 90% of
its oil or gets 90% of Iran's exports
right China has actually been quite
resilient because again China has been
the strategic investor diversifying
their energy resources so when it comes
to exports and imports um potentially
what we might be seeing is a lot of
other countries a lot of governments who
are not uh who don't produce oil and as
a result they have energy uh dependence
they might be looking at China and
they're saying we need to do what China
has done how Do we do that? We need to
build green energy. Who can offer that
knowhow, that IP? China. So,
interestingly, on the back of this, I
guess one things start getting a bit
more smooth. Maybe China finds a new a
new additional export growth channel
that of exporting knowhow, energy
resilience knowhow in the green energy
sector. So, in the in that sort of
supply chain. So, um Chinese exports
have been very very strong. Um and they
might find an an additional sort of a
channel there. And as you as we were
talking about given a time when
inflation is picking up you know you
need that sort of diversification you
might not get that a hedge in the bond
market anymore even gold prices are real
assets starting to look more attractive
>> yeah I mean will we have a scenario
where inflation continues to be sort of
sticky and and rates sort of um we don't
see sort of those cuts in in the US and
in other places if anything in other
places we started seeing hikes we
started seeing hikes in place like
Australia we started to see hikes in
some of the not haves in emerging market
space um Indonesia etc. and even VCBs
now is is sort of um we're seeing some
pricing for for hikes. Bonds have had um
relatively poor returns the past four or
five years as inflation has gone up and
as cash and as cash rates have sort of
normalized. we could see some additional
years of poor bond returns as a result
which means from a portfolio
construction perspective you know I I'm
I'm I'm in the multi asset my multi
asset investor we always need to look at
sort of across the pond
>> fixed income we have had a very low
exposure to fixed income the past 5
years are we increasing that exposure
most likely not what are we doing
instead alternatives commodities real
assets that's where the portfolio has
shifted more towards sort of in in
recent years whether that is the
commodities copper uranium
or also energy equities that are more
linked to you know green energy for
instance which again as I mentioned
before China might have actually a
knowhow that's another an interesting
area sort of to be looking at
>> how do you look at the China markets
right now because there's been calls
there needs to be a broadening because
it's narrowed right now I think 5% of
the stocks right now driving 40% of
volume in China so how do you look at
China right now
>> talking about China the US I think that
story is everywhere that story is
everywhere pretty much if anything
emerging markets have become a lot more
concentrated
than than than the US days. I think that
that that's kind of the interesting
story. But you know, specifically on
China, um we've had more of a preference
for the for the Asia's market and
especially a bit of a focus in the
midcap space CSI 500 or China next which
are meant to be at this you know the
government policy makers are pushing
towards you know for more flow towards
that part of the market when it comes to
pension funds, wealth management etc.
And you know if this is an if it's not
happening right now this is an if. But
if we end up seeing Chinese consumption
rebounding what do we need to see? You
know we need to see obviously you know
the
oil prices sort of come down to some
extent and we also need to see the
property market some more green shoots
from the property market. We're starting
to see some some early signs of that.
There's been some false sort of signals
in the past. I let's wait and see how
this plays out. But essentially if we
started seeing these the midcup space is
a little more you know the revenue it's
domestic revenue generation and they
could benefit.
>> George it's great to have you George
Esattopolis there portfolio manager at
Fidelity International. Uh we were
talking about markets and really this
premarket is looking pretty lackluster
here today against this backdrop of you
know things looking a little bit better
and risk assets in North Asia in
particular. Hang premarket there you go
we're down about 410 of 1%. We'll watch
how some of these China [music] tech
plays fare. You know, it seems like
geopolitics are really kind of
reemerging uh for that trade as well. Uh
we got futures still though a tenth of a
percent higher. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
All right, it looks like greater China
not really participating in this rebound
here this morning across Asia. You are
seeing when it comes to the [music] hang
premarket, we're down about 4/10en of
1%. His tech is on offer. You take a
look at some of these companies that
were added or readded back to this
Pentagon blacklist, you are seeing some
downside when it comes to Baba B is
doing a little bit better, but Wooi app
also close to 2% losses. We got the open
coming up next. This [music] is
Bloomberg
[music]
and welcome back. You are of course
watching the China show. We're counting
down to the open of markets as you see
in about 42 seconds. Uh the markets in
China and in Hong Kong pointing slightly
lower here in Hong [music] Kong, but
it's a much less turbulent day to start
the day uh here in Asia today as opposed
to yesterday, of course, on the back of
the big sell-off in Wall Street. On
Friday, Wall Street sort of stabilized
with the NASDAQ 100 up 1.6%. S&P 500
also eaked out a slight gain of about
3/10en of 1%. Yeah, you know the the
chaos yesterday, right? They were
talking about in Taiwan where some of
the brokerage sites were down and then
someone in Korea kind of did something
wrong with the some of the fat figs.
>> Yeah. So, there's there was a lot of
that yesterday. Today, as you as Steve
mentioned, right, it's almost like the
rain has cleared in Hong Kong as well.
Things are stabilizing on the weather
front. Uh the temperature and across
markets has also cooled down a bit here.
So, at least you are seeing some upside
gains when it comes to CSI 300 here
today. really kind of following some of
the tailwinds that we're seeing across
Asia. So, Korea, Taiwan has rebounded.
The Chinx, the Shenzhen gauge obviously
is doing a bit better given some of the
AI trades there. So, we are seeing the
China is up more than 1%. And no
surprise, it's the once again the
darlings of the AI trade. Capricorn tech
is up 2%. CL is also up close to 1% as
well. So, uh so new energy, you talk
about you know AI, pure plays, all that.
Semis are doing okay domestically. Hong
Kong could be a different picture here.
You take a look at Hang Sang is doing.
We're down about 610 of 1%. HStech seems
to be dragging a little bit about that.
BU the is the exception which is
interesting because we we've seen some
pretty pronounced moves to the downside
of late but there was this Pentagon list
um that has accused Alibaba BU of aiding
the Chinese military. We've seen this
list before few months ago. Some of them
were taken out. Now it seems like
they've been back on. Um, so there's a
bit of kind of, you know, it's
interesting take from our Bloomberg
economics team saying that, you know,
it's it's bad, but then it's not as bad
as sanctions. So that's the way to kind
of look at it.
>> Yeah. There's no immediate legal
ramifications of being added to this
what 1260H list, a blacklist of the
Pentagon, but it could be a warning as
well to investors that further uh
retaliatory action or any kind of
punitive action on national security
grounds could be in the pipeline. Uh but
again it's a broadening of this list
including pharmaceutical company like
Wooi Apt which has strong connections
with Eli Liy as uh supplier to them but
also the big chip company CXMT Yangza
memory uh and adding Alibaba BU and BYD
the addition of
>> Tensson those chip makers both of which
are big IPOs coming up uh here in China
as well. So it'll be interesting to see
how this all plays out. Other movers
that we're checking across these markets
are the Apple suppliers. So we're
tracking the worldwide developers
conference in the US and Apple of course
debuting uh that AI agent right Siri AI
and how it really stacks up uh in the AI
era. Apple after hours was down the
stock was also down. So there was a bit
of disappointment there but at least
some of these suppliers are doing
relatively speaking a little bit better.
Uh autos is certainly one thing to watch
as well because we saw some data that
came through uh yesterday here when it
came to you know car sales slumping. So
it did drive the PCA, this is the
passenger car association to deepen
their forecast when it comes to those
cuts. So um it's a mixed picture, but
BYDE are actually doing okay in the face
of it. Lee Auto though is down some 1%.
Uh let's talk a little bit more about
market breath, right? Because we talk
about concentration risk in Taiwan. We
talk about concentration risk in Korea.
Uh I hope my producers have this chart,
right? Just to show you're seeing some
signs of that sort of concentration risk
>> in China, right? When you take a look at
what some of these Shanghai, some of the
Shenzhen benchmarks are showing you,
shares of companies in those benchmarks
that are trading above or at 52- week
highs are actually now slipping. So from
10% at the start of the year, you see
that in the top frame there to now about
8 1.5% in midMay at a time when you're
actually seeing consistent gains. So it
shows that maybe there are signs of
strain that maybe participation is
weakening there. So breath seems to be
narrowing uh in this market. Let's bring
in our Asia equities reporter Charlotte
Yang with more on this as well. So we
still have to deal with some
concentration risk in China as well.
>> Yeah. So my colleague April had this
really cool piece looking at the
technical indicators that show you how
actually there are signs of strain
emerging for the Chinese onore market.
You know, like you said, a lot of people
like to talk about Korea and Taiwan when
we think about concentrations, but if
you're actually looking at China
onshore, so top I think top 10% of
stocks have actually actually
contributed to nearly 60% of total
turnover in May. And also if you look at
other um indicators such as what they
call like the advanced decline lines,
which is a measure of how many stocks
more stocks are rising or falling, that
is actually also being declined. And
we're also seeing less stocks now that
are trading above their 200 day um
moving average. That also shows you how
you know despite the index level we're
doing fine doing better than regional
peers. They actually we it's actually
less support for the market.
>> You know when I mentioned this story to
our last guest George he said are you
talking about the US or you talking
about China as far as
>> it's about the same really
>> right the the 5% of the companies are
basically contributing about what 40% of
the trading volume. uh what what we
should we be looking at as far as an
indication that the broadening is
starting to happen. Yeah, I that's a
good very good point and and also
actually just at one of the mangroup
briefing last week and they talk about
the the person was more talking about
you know how he sees this extreme
concentration in Asia now broading out
and the reason for that is because
they're seeing earnings broading out so
it's no longer I think part of the
reason why we're seeing such
concentration of moves in these AR
hardware because the other they had the
strongest earnings upgrades but now
we're seeing some of those earnings
upgrades spreading to you know um the
the industrial sectors and also new
energy so I I think with uh if we we
continuing to see more of those earnings
upgrades start spreading out to more
sectors, I think the concentration will
also ease.
>> All right, that was our Asia equities
reporter Charlotte Yang. Thanks so much.
Uh let's pivot as I pivot in my chair
here. Over to the other story we've been
talking about. China's car sales fell
22.1% in May, prompting uh the China
Passenger Car Association or PCA to
downgrade its annual sales outlook. They
now expect fullear passenger vehicle
sales to drop 11% compared with its
earlier projection of a 1% decline.
Bloomberg's Asia Aviation and Transport
reporter Danny Lee joins us now. So the
further deterioration is this a you know
emblem or a symptom of the low household
confidence and low spending power or
just waiting for the knife to continue
to fall because of the price war? Well,
I think this is also a continuation of
the government withdrawing support for
the industry through the previous
subsidies and tax breaks that they have
rolled out and they cut at the end of
last year. So, we're continuing to see
this deepening malaise in the car
industry. That 22% fall was the single
biggest fall since roughly April 2022.
That also hurts EV sales down 7 and a
half% um year on year. So, it it's a
tough time for the car industry. And
when you looked at the stocks now it's a
mixed picture out there. You still still
see the likes of BYD who is struggling
domestically doing really well overseas
but they are in a stronger position than
some of the other players like Lee Auto
which had a difficult sales period. They
announced their May sales. Uh they you
know slip back further more and you see
some of these car makers looking to the
future to bolster their earnings and
sales and that might not happen. And so
with this cut in the annual target, it
does show the vulnerability for some of
those smaller or weaker car players out
there. So yeah, definitely a mixed
picture.
>> How much do overseas exports help now
>> for BYD? Significant numbers. We're
talking potentially 40 50% of their
monthly sales now being drawn from
overseas markets. And they're doing a
phenomenal job because higher margins.
They've got such momentum because of the
higher uh fuel price overseas. And so
for BYD, they've laid the groundwork and
they're going to know reap the gains
from that. And so that momentum for them
will continue for many months. We see
that already in parts of Europe and and
elsewhere and in Latin America. So if
you are some of the smaller players who
doesn't who do not have that overseas
exposure then you're going to be in a
lot of trouble domestically because uh
the guidance from the PCA is saying that
that summer low we have seen
continuously that's going to deepen and
therefore the the kind of growth or
return to growth will only happen in the
last quarter. So it's going to be a
difficult number of months to come.
>> All right Denny thank you Denny Lee
there Asia aviation and transport
reporter. Coming up, we're going to talk
a little bit more about Apple's
Worldwide Developer Conference in
California as a company sets the stage
for its AI reboot. We're going to get
the take from IDC. [music]
Coming up, this is Bloomberg
at Apple. Creating the best products in
the world to deliver experiences that
enrich people's lives has always been
our northstar.
It's been the honor of a lifetime to
help advance that mission with teams
whose creativity, care, and conviction
continue to make a lasting difference in
people's lives.
Apple CEO Tim Cook there delivering the
closing remarks of the company's
worldwide developers conference there in
Certino. We're watching some of these
Apple suppliers as well which actually
are doing okay uh in the face of course
with Apple shares that were actually
lower. There was a bit of a
disappointment I guess from some of the
investors out there about Siri AI and
really their AI agent uh in this whole
kind of race. Apple has largely been
seen as really lagging in this whole
race so far.
>> You know Apple still has to overcome
investor skepticism about its AI
strategy. So, Apple did introduce a new
generation of products at its annual
worldwide developer conference in
Certino, including an overhauled
assistant called Siri AI to compete with
its rivals. Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo was at
the event and gave us the highlights.
Apple WWDC represented the biggest
overhaul of Siri the company's ever
done. It is Siri AI. It comes in the
form of a standalone app. It comes with
a chatbot interface. It is also
interoperable. Uh, Siri AI will work
across iOS with iPhone, Mac OS with Mac,
iPad OS with iPad. You get the idea. The
whole point is that you can start a
project, something meaningfully useful
on one device and carry it over into
another. It takes Siri from a place
where it's a feature, it's a single
prompt that elicits a single result to a
multi-step task, something much more uh
of use. There's also visual intelligence
where now through any given device, Siri
can help you see through the camera on
that device. Much better uh
functionality around assessing and
analyzing image-based files. Um the
bigger picture is that Apple didn't
announce anything that's some kind of
breakthrough feature. A lot of this
they've been talking about for a number
of years but not yet released. Speaking
of release, uh, Siri AI goes into beta
for developers today, but it won't be in
a wider beta release in the US until
later this year. English language only
at first. If you're in the European
Union, that doesn't come until March. In
China, there's no timeline because of
the regulatory hurdles that Apple is
facing. One more thing, this was Tim
Cook's 15th and final WWDC as chief
executive. On September 1st, he hands
the reigns over to John Turnis, who
takes on the CEO role. But right at the
beginning of the presentation, before
the pre-prepared, pre-recorded keynote
even started, Tim Cook came onto stage
to a standing uh standing applause um
and appreciation basically of the work
that he's done. The main takeaway that
Bloomberg has from this event is that
Siri is actually real and it's now doing
things that are useful even if those
things were previously advertised. This
is Ed Lello for Bloomberg News in
Certino.
>> Well, our next guest was also at Apple's
WWDC. Joining us now from Certino is
Nabila Popal, senior research director
at IDC. Uh Nabil, it's great to have
you. Um yeah, so I mean they finally
debuted the Siri AI. What what's your
initial take so far and how does it you
know in any way challenge the initials
the big ones there which is open AI as
well as anthropic?
Hi, thank you for having me. Absolutely.
So, there was, you know, excitement
going into the event. There were rumors
and I think uh my key takeaway is that
Apple delivered on what we have been
waiting for, which was that, you know,
Siri 2.0. I know they're calling it Siri
AI, but it is finally the real personal
assistant that um consumers and and you
know, we we've been looking for Siri to
get to that level, right? And we and um
what really stood out to me and how I
think um Apple is going to differentiate
um this is one the fact that it's going
to have um access to all personal
context right so that's what is really
going to give it the upper edge not only
are you going to be able to use the
model like we are used to right in other
um other AI models um getting certain
information carrying forward
conversations using visual intelligence
so all of that is there um in some of
the um other AI models, but what they
what has what is not is your personal
history, your messages with your family
or your group chats. Being able to pull
across all those different apps, be it
email, be it messages, and carry forward
a uh uh you know, single conversation
and then have it do action, right? So
the example um let's say you know where
is the where is the location of um the
next meter shower and then what was the
where was the uh you know like when is
it coming what are the dates and then
you ask it to take it further where you
know what did my sister recommend what
was the location she said to go to right
and then okay can you now send a message
through the group chat inviting
everybody to a pre-show party so there's
so many different things that that were
um that I think it takes it to the next
level and then just one more thing I
think What gives it the upper edge is
Apple's core message around privacy and
security which they really did emphasize
right this is not Gemini's models this
is yes leveraging Gemini technology and
partnership but this is all going to be
secure uh on device or on private cloud
compute using Apple's foundational model
so those were the two take-home messages
for me around Siri
>> well Nilla this is Stephen Angel here
how much of a key pivotal moment Is this
for Apple? We're having of course that
transition period with Tim Cook stepping
aside in the boardroom, but also as we
heard from Ed Ledllo there who was also
at the the conference saying there was
no real breakthrough uh feature that was
announced. Yes, this is an advancement
of Siri AI. Uh did they do enough?
>> You know, that's I'm really glad you
brought this up. I agree, right? I I and
you know while I agree that there was no
revolutionary breakthrough feature that
we haven't seen before um across you
know other um other models but what is
breakthrough is the fact that it's let's
remember the Apple installed base there
are massive you know there's millions of
users using iPhone and iPhone only right
not everyone has been in the tech space
or has used um other devices those are
the consumers that are going to be
revolution they're going to get these um
features that they didn't have access to
before and they're going to find them
very um useful and it will enhance their
life. Yes, again technologically it
might not have been groundbreaking but
it will um have a significant impact to
the user experience which is again
central to Apple's story, right? How can
we It's not about shiny um names or
different uh features and like you know
agentic this and aentic that but really
how can we make the um user experience
uh better and how can we enhance the
users's life and and make it easier and
I think that's what some of the features
that we will find resonate really well
with um iOS users. So, it will um impact
the installed base especially users who
are sitting on four-year-old iPhones
given the economic climate and
inflationary pressure that we're seeing.
Uh they might have considered right not
um upgrading this year. Those are the
devices that won't have um or you know
are not hardware ready to have Apple
intelligence or the upgraded Siri. Um
and in order to get that uh this might
just push them over the edge. So
absolutely this was a this is the
pivotal year for Apple um to catch up to
its AI strategy and I think that they
have and they will deliver.
>> Yeah. It's it's similar I guess to what
you see with the likes of Tencent and
and Baba right where they have these
massive user bases and this whole
ecosystem which they can incorporate AI
into Nibila. What does this mean for the
upgrade cycle? Do you think this what
we're seeing with Siri is enough to
drive a pretty big upgrade cycle for
Apple?
So you know thank you for bringing that
up and that's exactly what I meant right
um when I said that the um older uh so
the Apple intelligence and essentially
all the feature that were announced
today will be available uh to
oh you know from 16 um sorry 15 pro
onwards right but it won't be uh
available for users prior to that device
so iPhone 14 users uh will not have
access to that so it's really all of
those users that will be inclined to
upgrade. So, it's essentially, you know,
going to help carry forward the
momentum, the strong momentum that Apple
has built um last year, right? So,
instead of dropping that or slowing
down, it will really it will help
enhance and take that forward
>> which is very important especially that
the overall smartphone market is going
to see a a large decline and face
challenges. So, if Apple's able to
continue this momentum, they will see
share gain um you know, no doubt like
significant share gain. this year
because of that.
>> Nilla, thanks so much for your insights
after that uh conference participation.
Senior research director at IDC and
Certino. You can rewatch that on the
Bloomberg video hub. Subscribers can
explore live streaming news and
interviews. All our Bloomberg TV shows,
documentaries, reporter analysis, and
more. Check out bloomberg.com/videos.
This is Bloomberg.
And welcome back. You are of course
watching the China show and here are
some of the top corporate stories we are
following. Tencent is said to be looking
to raise around $3 billion [music] in a
dual currency bond offering that could
be priced as early as Tuesday. Sources
say the company has secured [music]
regulatory approval to issue as much as
$4.5 billion dollars in offshore debt if
successfully [music] priced. The deal
would be Tencent's first dollar bond
issuance since 2021 and its second ever
dim sum bond bond sale.
Now, a new report from Bane suggests
global buyout deal value fell to $20
billion in the first quarter as fewer
[music] large deals were completed.
Valuations of software companies fell
about 8% in the first quarter. Bane says
private equity firms need to adjust to
the AI threat by figuring out how to
protect existing [music]
investments.
And Intel shares closed higher after
reports that Google will rely on it for
more than 3 [music] million specialized
AI chips in 2028. According to the
information, Google will tap Intel to
manufacture [music] some of the TPUs
after months of testing the chipmaker
technology. this [music] as TSMC
struggles to keep up with demand for its
manufacturing capacity.
>> All right, we're checking markets here
right now and where we are in this whole
tech sort of AI play here. When you take
a look at some of these uh big ones here
in Korea, so this rebound not exactly
lifting everything here. When you talk
about LG Electronics, some of the
robotic names, Naver, Ducson Robotics,
these were some of the ones that were
also dining and and and whining with
Jensen Huang in Korea as well are
actually still seeing double-digit
losses here. Uh, and we are seeing the
Kazak though actually recovering quite a
bit there. But there again, you take a
look at what else is moving when it
comes to some of the Shenzhen movers as
well. Optical stocks uh certainly is
still doing okay. So there's still parts
of the whole China AI plays that are
still seeing quite a bit of of upside
here today. So the likes of Epcot is up
close to seven. Uh and we're watching of
course the AI data stocks uh in China as
well. So we we've talked about not just
you know the optical side of things but
data after the government did come up
with some sort of development plan. So
you are seeing most of these uh are
higher here this morning. Uh we're still
tracking of course some of those uh
names that were put and reut on this
Pentagon list. So Wooi Attek uh we're
still watching of course that stock in
particular here after uh was included
into that list here. We're down some 5%
right now. You are we actually saw when
it comes to Baba when it cames uh to
some of these other companies were also
falling uh in the face of that news
there. So certainly continue to see some
I guess worries about what it means when
it comes to this being on this Pentagon
list. Uh the dashboard is looking like
this here. You are actually seeing when
it comes to onshore markets doing a
little bit better than a hang here right
now. Hong Kong is down some half of 1%.
Uh but you are seeing when it comes to
the eight shares also seeing some uh
marginal declines here. China X is where
things stand out. So Shenzhen is still
doing very well. Uh we're up about 1% or
so. Steve, what else are you watching
out for? Well, coming up in the next
hour, we'll be talking FX with Bank of
America's Global Researches Ardash SHA
and why they're revising their yen view
to neutral from bearish. Plus, we'll be
live from Invest Malaysia in Koala
Lumpur with Bura Malaysia CEO on the
country's growing IPO pipeline. [music]
Diversified coverage across the region.
Ivon today obviously a much different
day than yesterday when we [music] were
talking at this hour about the losses
across the board but a little bit of a
stabilization right now as we look at Lu
Jad in Shanghai. We'll be right back
with the next hour of the [music] China
show.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Welcome back to the China show. A look
at the CSI 300 a half hour into the
session and yeah, you're seeing a
rebound here today. We're up about half
of 1%. MEI China also doing a little bit
better. Mind you though, the gains that
we're seeing maybe in greater China
might not be as as great as what we're
seeing in the likes of Cosby, likes in
Taiwan here. So, this unwind, all the
fears about that looks like, yeah, it
took only 24 hours for us to rebound and
get back to where things are. Maybe
business as usual, maybe. Steve,
>> I'm not willing to put my neck
[laughter] on the line to say I think as
we heard from uh one of the guests
earlier this morning, yeah, there could
be more volatility down the line, but it
was a bit of a reset and now we're
seeing, you know, just the expectations
change just slightly. Yeah, you know,
you had news about open AI that helped
in lift to come on overall in AI
sentiment. Uh some news about Intel and
then of course obviously there's been
some fundraising and 10 cents. So there
has been some incremental news uh to
help. I think the Iran and Israel
situation has also come down a bit in
terms of the temperature. So that is
also lifting uh some boats here this
morning as well and really putting a cap
on oil prices. So that actually helps.
There you go. Cosby. Uh we're we're
climbing back about 3 and a half% or
more. Mind you, it's not completely
making up for all the losses yesterday.
So, you're still seeing uh a decent
gain, but not really completely fully
recovering here. Taipei is also close to
2% gains here right now. Uh the EMFX
side, I think, certainly has been the
the pressure point, the pain point.
Obviously, Jakarta, one of the worst
performing, if not the worst performing
uh market there. Uh we are also there
seeing a little bit more upside when it
comes to the JCI uh there as well. The
Rupia also has been stabilizing just a
bit here. We're strengthening just a bit
around 18,136.
Uh and that really gives the dollar
rally a bit of pause here as well. When
you take a look at what's been going on
the Korean Juan, that's also uh
recovering a bit here. Uh dollar yen,
we're still above that 160 level though.
So certainly a lot to talk about here,
of course, ahead of that BOJ decision.
That's one more. Let's bring in Anthony
Stevens, our market producer. Um yeah,
everyone's kind of figuring out, right?
Was this supposed to be the beginning of
that big correction or was it just a
blip? We're seeing more signs that this
was a riskmanagement week, right? We had
the US CPI anyway on Wednesday. You
know, we had the risk unwind yesterday
and a lot of the technical indicators
around that spoke to a risk unwind
event, right? You saw balls uh crash
ball spiking, futures wall uh futures
volatility and futures volumes
increased. Cash volumes didn't do that,
right? Uh and so you saw people putting
hedges in place and trimming the stuff
that that the most speculative that they
understood the least. Uh and then you
had policy makers, you know, from a
positive perspective, policy makers
jumping into the breach very early. So
you had the Korean policy makers saying
that the market is still undervalued.
The Indonesians came out and clarified
their export control. So Asian policy
makers were very proactive. But what
you're seeing people do in the recovery
is buy the stuff that makes sense, not
the most speculative stuff. and that is
capping the nature of this rally.
>> So let's let's pivot that then to China.
How does it fit into the AI narrative
right now? We were just seeing as well
like for example PCB resin stocks
gaining on a CCTV report of price
surges. Uh but again how do how do you
read how China is playing in to the AI
trend?
>> So yesterday China was a little bit of a
safe haven right like you had the HSI
you know less than a percent down but
China did get hurt. So what's happening
today is a reassessment of that China X
trade. What within that trade has
government support and what is pure
speculation, right? And the government
support is very clearly behind the data
center buildout. Uh and you're seeing
the optical names do really well. But
the more speculative stuff around
physical AI uh even on the pure play AI
software names in Hong Kong, Japu and
Minia, they're struggling. So the amount
of risk people can add into the US CPI
and without clear government catalyst is
very muted at the moment.
>> Anthony, thank you. Anthony Stevens
there, our Bloomberg markets reporter.
Uh we're checking when it comes to of
course FX and it seems like the dollar
at least has stabilized a little bit
during the Asia session here today. And
we talk about a little bit of more
steadiness when it comes to EMFX side of
things. Let's bring in Adar Singa, head
of global G10 FX strategy at BFA Global
Research. Ah yeah, we missed you here in
Hong Kong, Adar. It's good to see you
back in the region.
>> If I'm trying to deal with this new
regime of higher rates, um what's the
best way to really express that? Is it
still remaining in the dollar right now
to go along?
>> Yeah, I mean look, the trades that we
like to be paid front-end rates in the
US and if front end US rates are going
up, the dollar should probably
strengthen. Um I think the big issue for
the dollar right now is ultimately the
DXY or EUR dollar. We're still within
that range we've been in for the past
one year. Sort of 114 to 120 for Euro
dollar.
>> Even with it hikes.
>> Exactly. Right. And and I think the
question for clients is whenever you get
closer to that 114 level as we are now,
you see a bit bit of reluctance to kind
of pile into the trade. That said, you
know, our forecast is 114 for the second
quarter. I do think if we get to 114 and
break through it, uh there's probably a
bit more downside for the uh in terms of
euro going weaker versus the dollar. And
that's the trade we've recommended as
well.
>> So here in this part of the world,
obviously a lot of the currencies have
been under fire. I mean, the Korean
officials over the weekend were saying
that they're going to be unveiling a
number of different measures uh to
combat speculation. Uh there's been job
owning there. Uh there's been job owning
elsewhere. Hasn't necessarily worked. I
can then pivot to Japan as well. We're
at 160 to the dollar right now. At what
point does job owning not work? And that
intervention is is going to be the key
for at 160 for the yen.
>> So if you think about Korea and Japan,
what's the similarity between these two
countries? Basically, you're seeing very
large structural outflows from both
Japan and Korea and primarily from the
household sector, the retail sector. Um,
and that's part of the reason why policy
intervention in both countries, although
probably a bit more in Korea because
they do the jaw boning, they have the
NPS, has not been very effective. Um,
and I think you're now at a point where
some policy credibility has been lost.
dollar careers through 1500. Uh dollar
yen, we saw the biggest intervention in
a decade and we're back at 160. Um so
it's an issue for policy makers and I
think it's an issue basically because
these currencies are weakening due to
external factors, stuff that is out of
their control.
>> So what else can they do? I mean are
they just forced to keep hiking rates
then?
>> Um well we've seen that for central
banks in this region. I think yield
compression does help at some point but
we're not quite there yet. as we've seen
for Indonesia, they hike by 50 basis
points and the currency is still quite
weak. Um, I think in some ways you have
to accommodate weaker currencies. You
can control the volatility, but you
shouldn't try defending specific levels.
I think that's always going to be a
difficult game in this sort of
environment.
>> What's your outlook for the rem? It's
gone on a different trajectory. It's
appreciated against the dollar, but do
you see that gaining uh or losing some
momentum?
>> Yes, over the next couple of months. So,
so we've been bullish on the remn. It's
done quite well versus its peers. We
expect it eventually to move to 670, but
the next couple of months could be
tricky. Partly because we're
constructive on the dollar. Uh partly
because seasonally uh this is kind of
dividend repayment season uh where there
tends to be FX demand. So sort of
onshore buying dollars selling remini.
Um and also in terms of the fixing, I
think you could argue China will be a
bit more cautious in terms of the dollar
CNY fixings. uh especially given that
the next meeting between President Xi
and President Trump is in September and
they probably don't want to strengthen
the remain too much.
>> Do you think with exports being so
strong though that they can tolerate
though a stronger currency?
>> I think medium-term there is a bit of a
change in the mentality around the
currency. Um there's they're less
mercantalist in their thinking just
because exports have held up quite well
and there are benefits to a strong
currency, less capital outflow, the
intern internationalization of the R&B.
So I think medium to longterm definitely
they'll be okay with a stronger
currency. is just in the next couple of
months you want to be a bit more
cautious and keep in mind being long
reminers
would be a bit more reluctant if it's
not moving lower each and every day.
>> Well, it's interesting we're going to be
getting those trade numbers later today.
They have been importing a lot more. I
mean granted uh not necessarily from
Iran and the oil but again they're
importing a lot more based on the demand
for the AI u surge indigenous
innovation. We could see doubledigit
gain in imports for the fifth
consecutive month which is quite a I
mean there's base effects here obviously
no doubt but again that goes into the
argument that a stronger remma plays to
their advantage if they want to
alleviate that trade imbalance.
>> Yeah absolutely and the other thing to
keep although on the flip side I'd say
for exports one thing to keep in mind is
exporters are not converting their
export proceeds into local currency. Um,
so that could be another reason why it
might be difficult for the remin to to
strengthen immediately just because you
still have a yield advantage when you're
holding dollars versus remain.
>> What does it mean for the carry trade?
If if I'm talking about rates are going
to be staying higher for longer,
inflation's back in some ways. Does that
does that change the playbook on how you
look at carry trades? Now,
>> I think it's important because obviously
we've seen a bit of a correction. Some
of our equity signals at Bank America
are flashing red. I think 70% of the
indicators are flashing red. Our bull
bear indicators saying sell. So if the
equity selloff continues, then you would
expect that to spill over to FX
volatility and in that case the carry
trade would be under pressure. I think
probably the most popular carry trade
has been Brazil. So we're seeing that
kind of unwind a little bit. In G10 it's
been the Australian dollar where I kind
of sense there's less appetite to buy
the Aussie at these levels. Um so it's
not quite wholesale pressure for the
carry trade yet, but certainly it is a
risk if the equity correction continues.
>> What's your outlook in Europe? Did you
just have a trip FX trip? I was there
for two weeks during a heat wave. So, it
was quite exhausting. Um [laughter] I I
think the general sense I got from
European investors and corporates was um
euros more likely to weaken than
strengthen. And it's interesting because
the ECB is going to hike this week and
they might hike again. And you have the
most priced in in terms of rate hikes,
but it's not benefiting the currency
mainly because rate hikes are viewed as
a policy mistake that will have to be
unwound with rate cuts maybe next year,
which is our view. Um so it's quite
interesting. you're seeing rate hikes
being priced in the rate gap narrow yet
the euro is not benefiting and I think
that's some that was something um I
heard on my European trip as well
>> um obviously there's been a lot of
concerns in where you are now in London
uh when the guilt market and the like
what does that mean for the pound moving
forward
>> so it's interesting I would argue the
pound has been pretty resilient all
things considered we had risk off last
week the pound held up you have all the
political noise you have a bi-election
happening and the pound is holding up uh
we actually long the long the pound
versus the euro. So we're short euro
sterling and the reason is we see a lot
of risk premium or bad news that's
already priced in when we speak to
investors and when we look at the FX
options market. So for choice uh I mean
there are a lot of risks out there.
They're not going away anytime soon but
where we we we favor being tactically
long pounds for the time being.
>> Adar, thanks so much for your time and
welcome back to the region.
>> Thank you. Glad to be here.
>> All right, a head of global G10 FX
strategy at Bank of America Global
Research. Uh coming up, we're live from
Koala Lumpur as the Invest Malaysia
Summit gets underway. We'll be speaking
exclusively [music]
with the CEO of Bersa Malaysia on their
IPO pipeline and its value up program.
We'll be live with Hassa [music] Amen
soon. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
All right, we're checking when it comes
to oil markets here today. So, things
looking a little bit tamer here when it
comes to the oil price after what we
heard uh is that Iran and Israel have
agreed to end attacks amid these peace
talks and of course pleas from President
Trump as well. And yeah, we we did hear
from the president recently about that.
>> Yeah. Well, President Trump says the war
will end in total victory, quote
unquote, in a few weeks. Here he is
speaking at a virtual campaign rally a
few hours ago.
>> We're negotiating now and they want to
make a very good deal. They're willing
to give us everything. They're willing
to give us no nuclear weapon. We've been
a very tough team and I think we are
winning that battle. But you're really
going to win it over the next two weeks
when we declare total victory. It'll be
a total victory. It'll happen very soon
and oil prices will come tumbling down.
>> Let's bring in Bloomberg managing editor
Jill Dus. Are we at uh promise fatigue
here at on this front right now?
>> Well, Steve, I mean, we're starting to
hear some repeated hits from Trump here,
right? I mean, his favorite unit of
measurement, as we know, is about two
weeks. Um, you just hear repeated here.
I think at this point, um, again, it
just remains entirely unclear as to how
exactly you get to these long sought
peace talks that Trump at this point has
been really hammering on for quite a
while now. Um we just concluded I mean
maybe concluded uh probably the the most
volatile period um within this conflict
since that initial ceasefire between the
US and Iran was announced back in April.
I mean think about it this way. You've
got um between Israel and uh Iran right
now um this um exchange of volley maybe
they've declared sort of a a truce at
least temporarily for now. Um but you
had at one point during this escalation
before they really called things off um
Iran saying that if you're starting to
or Israel striking a petrochem plants in
Iran and then Iran saying if you're
going to start going after energy
facilities again we will too. I mean
we're talking about um you know some of
that escalation that was really um at
the height of the war back in March when
we saw Iran strike um an LG facility um
something that led to uh oil just you
know is sort of going absolutely crazy.
So, I mean, that's the kind of uh
rhetoric that's some of the kind of
action that you're really worried about
at this point. Does this calm down
enough to the point where you ultimately
see that peace deal in two weeks? I
think that's incredibly uncertain, but
does really indicate here how determined
Trump is to just finally bring an end uh
to this conflict that he initiated back
in February.
>> What do we need to watch out the most?
Are we still watching flows in the
straight of Hormuz? Is that still the
big thing to watch still?
>> Yes, Ivon, that's right. I mean, look,
at this point, um you know, you you
heard Trump himself talk about um the
need to bring the price of oil back
down. Um, I think when you're talking
about energy coming in and out, um, oil
coming in and out of the straight of
Permuse, um, those concerns about
sustained, uh, elevated prices here,
that's really kind of at the forefront
of Trump's mind. Also, uh, the rest of
the Republican party in the United
States, because remember uh, they've got
a really important midterm election
coming up in November. Lots of concerns
among uh, the American public about uh,
the cost of fuel, about inflation, about
those elevated prices. is I mean that's
something that is going to be at the
forefront of their minds um as they um
reach the election where a lot of those
concerns about the domestic economy and
how much things are costing are going to
be at the forefront of the minds of
these voters. So that's certainly
something that's really playing into the
calculus at least politically in the
United States right now.
>> All right, Jill, thanks so much.
Bloomberg managing editor Jill Dies. Uh
Chinese President Xiinping has vowed to
expand trade uh agriculture and
technology cooperation with North Korea.
Of course, Xiinping is in Pyongyang
right now. Pyongyangs nuclear program
was not publicly mentioned during the
meeting with Kim Jong-un. Let's bring
our China correspondent Min Lo. So what
is the key takeaway right now of this
meeting? I mean there Xiinping has been
doubling down his support for Pyongyang.
But what really should we be reading
between the lines on this front?
>> Yeah, there are many things to pay
attention to, right? If you look at the
concrete outcomes for example and there
are many President C talked about being
ready to cooperate on everything from
trade to tourism to military exchanges,
law enforcement exchanges but the key
message is the fact that President C did
not even mention the nuclear program
when he visited. And this is not the
first time. I remember last year in
September, you and I were at the
military parade and Putin and Kim were
there and uh the Chinese readout also
did not mention a nuclear program which
is quite a a departure from past uh
traditions, right? Where this would
feature heavily in any of its
communications regarding North Korea. So
it really shows you that in some ways
maybe China is deprioritizing this
denuclearization push here.
>> Well, I think there was a white paper
that came out of Beijing as well that
did not mention denuclearization. So
that is quite telling.
>> Yeah. But what does it tell us about the
nuclearization efforts or at least what
what plans are underway in the
development of that, right? I mean it's
interesting that they they still they're
ignoring it or at least not they're not
acknowledging it but they still need to
confront this reality.
>> Yeah. I would say that the we are
confronting a more ambitious and more
confident North Korea. Right. And a part
of it is that it has drawn closer to
Russia uh during the course of the
Ukraine war by supplying troops to
Russia. It really gained some sort of uh
military knowhow as well as food fuel
for example. And that is part of the
reason why President Xi visited North
Korea to really reassert its influence
over this country. Uh but over the
course of the last I would say seven
years since President's last visit, we
have seen uh North Korea really expanded
its nuclear program. And just a couple
of days ago, you have Kim Jong-un's very
powerful sister declaring that this
atomic weapons program is irreversible.
It's non-negotiable. So, she's really
outlining the red line here. And I think
with President Trump uh President Xi uh
going there, not making mention of
nuclear program. It's almost an implicit
sort of endorsement here that maybe
would I think diminish any chance of a
resumption of that nuclear non-prolol
proliferation talk with the US. Right.
And we know that Trump has made no
secret of his his desire to meet with
Kim. He did so in the first uh his first
term in power. Uh but we haven't seen
any progress since then.
>> Obviously, North Korea needs Beijing
more than the other way around. Uh do we
have a good assessment of how important
this is this visit? Less so for she but
probably more so for Kim who is still
isolated globally.
>> Yes, it's definitely extremely
important. And I mean just look at the
reception that North Korea had given to
President C, right? You have the
children um jumping up and down with the
balloons. You have the soldier chanting,
you know, well wishes for President C's
help. And you even see the appearance of
Kim Jong-un's wife. And that is a very
rare appearance. And it shows you the
importance of this relationship. You
have Kim actually saying that this is a
major boost for his country to have
these visuals that is shared around the
world. the pictures of sea and came
together in North Korea in what is
presidency's first trip to the country
and I think he said unbreakable is the
word he said to describe the bilateral
relations and president she also
mentioned that he pledges his unwavering
support for Kim regardless of changes of
the international environment I mean
this is a really strong support and I
think in the event of any regional
instability in the event of missile
attacks and the like the world will then
have to turn to China as one of the only
true partners that can really have any
leverage on North Korea.
>> Mman, thank you Mim Lo there. Our China
correspondent uh wrapping up of course
President Xi's trip to Pyongyang. Uh
look at how Asian markets are doing as
we head to that break and really you
take a look at when it comes to risk
assets we are doing quite well. Uh CSB
is holding on to those gains here about
3 and a.5%. [music] Uh and we are seeing
though the hang is on heading the
opposite direction here on the back of
maybe some of these tech [music] names
that are heading lower this morning.
dish is bloomberg.
We're checking metals and the like here
this morning. The commodity complex
doing this here right now. A little bit
of downside pressure here when it comes
to iron ore and dalian. Steel. Aluminum
futures are also in the red. Copper
though continues to do quite well. It's
interesting. Jeffree had a note uh when
it came to what they think copper prices
could be. They're saying maybe $8 a
pound. That's around 17,636 a ton here
on the back of what AI and power
spending. They think that's going to be
really driving a lot of the demand
picture there.
>> Data centers, EVs, you name it. All
right. Well, Brazilian iron ore miner
Valet sees no evidence of war- rellated
demand destruction in the global
markets, global metals markets, even as
the Iran conflict disrupts raw material
flows. CEO Gustavo Pimementa says the
world's top iron ore producer is seeing
massive demand from its global
customers.
>> The amount of demand is super
constructive. It's historical for us I
think across all the critical minerals
we are seeing and uh a very strong
support from clients all over the world
from countries in terms of looking for
security of supply iron or continues to
be strong if you look at copper nickel
so across the board we are seeing
tremendous amount of demand for all of
the the mining the mining that we
produce
>> the bulk of your customers typically
come from China have you seen more
interest recently from the United States
>> we are um China continues to be a strong
market for us, very relevant for
everything we do. But we are seeing
growth outside China. Uh we are seeing
growth in Southeast Asia, we are seeing
growth in the US, Europe. So there is a
diversification uh going on these days
with other markets looking to amplify
their access to critical minerals.
>> People talk about a commodity super
cycle. Iron or hasn't participated as
much in terms of the price gains and
there has been a sort of plateauing in
demand from China. Where are the growth
opportunities specifically when it comes
to iron ore?
>> So we continue to be very optimistic
about iron or if you step back and look
at the overall demand. We have
population growth. We have
industrialization. We have other markets
growing. Certainly China probably has
plateaued and reached their overall peak
in terms of production. They are doing
more than a billion tons of crude steel
production annually. We think they'll
continue to be at that level. But we are
seeing growth in Southeast Asia. India
is growing substantially. We're
expecting India to double the crude
steel production in the next 10 years.
Even the US is growing. So we are seeing
more demand outside China. China will
continue to be the key market for all of
us but we are seeing greater demand in
other markets as well.
>> And that was Valet CEO Gustavo Pimementa
there speaking to Lisa Abramowitz. Uh
when it comes to markets, we're watching
gold miners here this morning. So they
have been kind of tracking that gold
price lower of late here. So some of
these Aussie gold miners are falling
substantially here today. We're watching
of course also the China tech space
again the fact that Alibaba BU BYD were
among dozens of of entities named on
this Pentagon blacklist because of you
know what they are accusing of
designation as Chinese military
companies. So Tencent on the flip side
is actually in positive territory here.
Uh they also announced a massive
fundraising round I believe about three
billion. So that certainly is lifting
the stock here today. But Baba, Wooi,
Attek and Wooi Biologics are all falling
here this morning. BU also still uh in
the green. Uh we're also watching some
of these what circuit board makers,
resin stock, Steve. I mean there's still
a lot of upside here for some of these
on a back of the CCTV report.
>> Yeah, I think so. And that's just again
giving more um fuel if you will for the
AI play and on the parts suppliers in
that in that space.
>> Yep. So certainly there that's one thing
to watch here as well. Um as we track of
course this rebound across risk assets
of course uh Asian stocks here today. So
uh certainly seeing here maybe this was
more of that healthy reset as some is
mentioning here according to our markets
producer Anthony Stevens risk management
yesterday here broad markets doing this
here hanging is on offer but the rest of
the region [music] looking okay. Cosby
now off some of the initial highs are up
close to 3%. This is Bloomberg.
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are going to that lunch break in just a
moment. And yes, we've been talking a
little bit more about this rebound. And
Japan certainly is feeling it today to
the upside. We're up close to 9/10en of
1% for the NIK225. the rest of Asia is
doing much better than yesterday. So, it
looks like could have been a blip
yesterday. We'll see. Uh we also did
have news of Katana, the finance uh
minister there saying that Japan is
undergoing its b biggest budget reform
uh for some time. So, certainly we're
watching very closely what that means
for the bond market here. Yields are
ticking just slightly higher here this
morning.
>> Well, let's look at the rest of Asia.
Change the page to the Asia market
dashboard. Again, the IT sector's
leading gains. We did have this story
late last night about the National Data
Administration of China releasing a plan
on accelerating development of data sets
to support AI development across
industries through 2028 according to a
WeChat statement and that might be
having it's definitely having an impact
on Chinese markets and on the IT sector.
Uh but again as China needs to import
also components and the like um for its
AI ambitions that's maybe giving some
lift as well. A day after what was a
pretty bloody market across the region,
we're seeing again Msei
Asia Pacific Infoch index up some three
and a quarter percent right now.
>> Yeah. And the rest of you know even
parts that we're seeing sort of the pain
uh when EMFX is doing slightly better,
right? Even when it comes to the likes
of Indonesia here today, the dollar is a
little bit more steadier here. If you
take a look at how emarkets like
Malaysia are doing as well, we've
basically are strengthening here. the
ringit snapping a 4-day losing streak
here and we are uh continuing to see a
bit more when it comes to uh moves in
stocks there are doing a little bit
better. We're still lower on the the
exchange uh there the stock exchange was
down about a fifth of 1% there but yes
the ringit at least is doing a little
bit better.
>> Well that's a nice segue then let's
cross over to our anchor as Linda Ahmed
in Koala Lumpur where Malaysia's stock
exchange operator is hosting its annual
flagship conference. She's standing by
with the host. That's Linda.
>> That's right. Uh Steve, Ivonne, we've
been talking about AI uh and
conversation so far in Asia has pretty
much been revolving around the likes of
uh Korea, Japan, Taiwan, but Malaysia
comes into the picture as well. In fact,
when you take a look at the tech index
on Bersa Malaysia, it is up 27%. And
that's because money's been coming in
wanting to play the data. uh centers as
well as the cloud infrastructure. Let's
get perspective from Fel Muhammad, CEO
at Bersa Malaysia. Fel, good to have you
with us.
>> Thank you, Asinda.
>> We saw some nerves recently in the AI
space. Some say perhaps we have seen
peak AI and those capbacks pretty much
unsustainable. What's your take on it?
>> Thank you as Linda. Um I think firstly
um our index has actually grown has
actually risen by about 27% as you
mentioned earlier and and that that's at
the back of very strong demand. um uh of
you know uh requirements for
semiconductors for backend testing for
assembly uh packaging and I think that
has actually helped and supported a lot
of our companies in uh in in Malaysia uh
and at the back of that we we remain
confident uh though there's been some
adjustments in the markets in terms of
price valuations I mean it has been a
tremendous super cycle uh in terms of uh
of valuations uh especially in the North
Asian markets of Korea and Taiwan. Uh
but at the end of the day, the demand
for uh for semiconductors, the demand
for tech uh to support the the growth in
data centers, to support the growth in
uh the need for chips, to support AI,
that will continue. And Malaysia, we're
very well positioned to support
>> well positioned, but not enough, right?
Because when you take a look at the tech
contribution AI play, it's only about 4%
of the weightage. I mean how do you
capitalize further?
>> Yeah. So that's precisely why there's a
lot of opportunity for us to push. Um
the tech index uh certainly is one space
that we want to be able to focus on. Uh
we want to have more companies in
Malaysia uh to be able to uh tap
especially companies in the technology
space to be able to tap the capital
markets. Uh and today um we've we've had
you know we've had companies who have
grown the the likes of Vitrox the likes
of Franken the likes of uh uh uh you
know a vinari etc which have grown over
time uh to become uh large billiondollar
companies today and we want to be able
to help more companies uh to come into
the capital markets. We had Sky chip
listing recently and amazing the the the
uh the retail over subscription was 95
times. The institutional book was 39
times and that clearly shows very strong
demand amongst investors to look at the
tech space and there is a lot of
opportunity for us to be able to
>> it's not just about the numbers you're
talking about IPOs right it's not about
the number of IPOs but quality higher
quality IPOs and bigger IPOs where are
you with that when will we see the next
Sunway
>> that's precisely what we're focusing on
size and scale uh as part of our uh
alignment to the capital market master
plan 26 to 30. We want to be able to
drive vibrancy in the market.
>> But where are you with that? Think 26 27
how many big quality IPOs are we
>> I mean we've had we've had first of all
as an exchange we cut across all sectors
but definitely we want to be able to
drive on the tech side and we are
looking at scaling up uh companies. The
focus today it's not about number of
IPOs. I agree entirely. The focus today
has to be on size. The focus today is to
have the right type of companies on the
market and I think today we are working
together with various stakeholders to be
able to push and drive the technology
space. The thing
>> so how big will these IPOs be?
>> Okay. So so I guess it's um you know to
to to give some uh number for example
sky chip we saw a it's a billion US
dollars coming out in market
capitalization. We want to see more of
that coming through. And of course uh
over time as our companies grow uh we
saw companies like Vitrox they started
off at about uh 55 million ringit market
cap to where they are today at 11.5
billion market cap.
>> Well I mean given the optimism give us a
sense of the pipeline for 26 and 27.
>> Um pipeline continues to be strong. Um
so year to date year to date we have
seen 29 IPOs and out of the 29 IPOs from
a market cap perspective size
perspective we have actually hit almost
where we were for the whole year in
2025. So we feel that uh there will be
continued traction in various uh areas
>> for the rest of the year and 2027
>> 2027 we'll continue to see that uh
because the pipeline today uh will
probably will probably cross into next
year.
>> Uh the issue right now is also
attracting foreign investors. So far
there's been an outflow when it comes to
foreign funds. What's what's what's
really what will it take to reverse
that? Yeah.
>> So I guess for us it's about um getting
the right sectors in place, getting the
right scale and size. Um but today we
also have to be mindful that uh there's
a lot of passive funds out there 17
trillion US of passive funds for example
track DMSCI and for us um it's important
that we build that scale and for us to
build that scale we will need to be able
to uh find larger companies to come on
board. uh we need to nurture those
larger companies and working with
various stakeholders to make sure that
we have the size and tech is one space
of it but the other space that we want
to be able to push is to make sure our
companies also grow. Hence we have
together with the securities commission
we have launched the my value up program
and the my value up program is about
four things. Number one, to be able to
achieve long-term value creation, to get
companies to be able to articulate
long-term value creation, to be able to
have very clear um uh performance
targets and metrics that investors can
track and to be able to ensure that
companies know how they allocating
capital and companies are able to
articulate that clearly and board
accountability.
>> The program is in place. What about the
traction? I mean how many countries have
signed up and what meaningful impact has
that been?
>> Okay, so we've just launched the program
in April. Uh the target is to see
submissions of their plans uh by the
year end. Uh we have targeted 88
companies. Why 88? Because 88 companies
attribute more than 80% of total market
capitalization and we feel that there is
the need if you want to push and make
the needle move that's where we have to
focus on. Um and we are we are seeing
traction the glicks will be coming out
to show support and they have uh
articulated the same uh to us and I
think for us the need for um uh to see
companies buy in and that's critical to
be able to ensure that companies
actually uh have conviction to support
this program.
>> We came into the segment talking about
the weakness in uh the Malaysian ringard
and some say that the currency reflects
the state of the economy. What is the
state of the economy?
>> I think at the end of the day, if you
look at the the macros, Malaysia's
numbers are fantastic. Uh it it remains
resilient. Uh first quarter GDP growth
of 5.4%. Um we see inflation low. Uh we
see rates very stable. Um and at the end
of the day, the macro drivers remain to
be uh to be strong. Um in terms of there
has been some retracement of the ringit,
but we're still at multi-year highs. And
if you look at it, it will benefit a lot
of the brutal companies who are very
strong in the export markets and that
will make us very uh attractive from an
investor perspective.
>> F thanks so much for your time today and
thanks for having us. Fel Muhammad, CEO
at Bersa Malaysia. Steve, handing it
back to you.
>> All right, Asinda inside anchor Linda
Amin at the Invest Malaysia conference.
We do have breaking news during that
interview. for the uh trade data out of
China for May uh better than expected or
higher numbers than expected. The
exports again coming off a very um
uh different base effect from last year
when exports to the United States
dropped off 35%. Um because of various
reasons obviously uh namely the tariffs
but we're getting 19.4% in US dollar
terms gain in exports year-over-year.
We're expecting 15%. It's better than
the previous month in April of 14%.
Also, imports higher than expected at
27.4% in US dollar terms. We were
expecting 26% uh that's above last
month's 25.3 I should say April's in a
widening trade balance 105.43
surplus billion dollars.
>> Uh that that that's quite the dynamics,
right? We talk about how imports are
actually uh seeing more growth than
exports now. Really just goes to show
right this demand for AI uh is certainly
helping the likes of exports and imports
for China. But really the demand for AI
hardware remains a powerful driver
exports here right now. We're not just
seeing it in China, we're seeing it in
Korea as well. I think when it came to
those main numbers, it was surging 61%
uh in South Korea. So that whole AI
story continues in these in the data for
China as well. And as Steve mentioned,
right, it's it's also the low base from
last year that is really helping these
numbers here right now. And of course,
imports from commodities from this Iran
war as well. We got plenty more to come.
This is Bloomberg.
with respect to the stock price,
everybody should be very excited. They
can now buy stock at a cheaper price and
and uh and it's absolutely true that um
the future of AI is very bright.
It is completely it it is a foregone
conclusion that AI will be
infrastructure for the world.
>> The next trillion dollar company, ladies
and gentlemen.
>> Wow. [laughter]
That would be exciting. Let's do it
together. Let's do it together.
>> I announce his stock price goes up.
>> Nothing happens to mine. [cheering]
[applause]
>> Let's also um let's also stay for the
>> that that's I'm very happy about that.
>> Let's also stay for the record that you
were a shareholder and you sold.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well,
>> I needed cash.
All right. Uh, Jen Sananity, right? CEO
Jenzu, they're speaking uh on Monday
about of course what we saw in the route
in Korean tech stocks as well that was
led by Nvidia supplier SKH Heinix. Uh,
you also were there in coffee when he
was also talking up these companies like
Marll too.
>> Yeah, I was right there when he was
talking about it. I mean Marll stock the
next day went up 33% the biggest gain in
26 years. Uh and also you saw Renee Hos
there, the CEO of ARM Holdings, uh who
used to work at Nvidia by the way. Uh
that stock surged 16% as well. So he's
becoming an oracle and um [laughter] and
>> well it's interesting how much you know
these sort of darlings that you know
were like neighbor for example that was
you know having Korean barbecue with him
and footed the bill and all that when he
was in soul. I mean, some of these
stocks were actually now falling after,
of course, all that hype and and really
now that I think he has left soul, I
believe. But certainly, um, it does lead
to a lot of questions about, you know,
his charisma and really what does it
mean for stock prices. Uh, let's bring
in Bloomberg opinion columnist Julie
Ren. She's been saying that this
investment advice from Jensen Wong has
been dangerously rosy.
>> Yeah, you've been talking about, you
know, he's known to be bold. He's known
to be, you know, kind of playful as
well, but when you take a look at what
he's doing and what he's saying, I mean,
you're saying it can get a little bit
>> Yeah. I mean, he he's absolutely market
moving and uh uh right now we are in
between earning seasons. So, we don't
really have uh company financials as
anchor uh when it comes to the AI uh
rally. So whenever this uh AI oracle
speaks up like he's going to move stock
prices and if you really look at a lot
of uh uh chip stocks they are by no
means uh cheap right like the Taiwan
market is getting quite expensive and we
have seen with NEA LG Electronics just
the the fact that he he he just boast
the the so-called partnership without
any details can ramp up a stock by 10
20% a day
>> you know I was there and he was
definitely on full salesman mode Um,
should he be keeping this advice to
himself or does he see something we
don't see? He needs to talk up these
suppliers because there's maybe some
fragility.
>> Well, he does need to buddy up the the
Asian suppliers, right? TSMC and the the
the memory chip makers because he needs
them to to supply to to his GPU unit so
that he can sell more Nvidia chips. But
on the other hand, I mean, he is a tech
person. He's a tech executive. What does
he know about stock valuation?
>> He talks it goes up. [laughter] That's
what he knows, right?
>> Um talk talk to me about valuations,
right? I think Korea we've talked about,
you know, despite these parabolic
rallies, valuations are still quite low.
Taiwan might be a bit different as well,
but do you think that overall speaking
they're they're still cheap to you?
>> Well, I mean Taiwan traditionally, if
you look at the forward uh PE basis, a
price to earning basis, Taiwan market is
uh at par with the US market now. And
traditionally uh Taiwan market is more
cyclical and therefore you see less
earnings visibility compared to S&P 500.
And when we talk about South Korean uh
the the memory chip makers right there
the the verd is still out on whether the
memory chip making is in the super
cycle. In the past it's a very uh
volatile industry. The the uh the cycle
typically last three to four years and
now we are at year two. Uh, are these
memory chip makers going to see visible
earnings all the way to 2028, 2029? We
don't yet know yet.
>> All right, Bloomberg opinion columnist
Shulie Ren, great column today. And you
can check out Shulie's full column. Hang
is talking up his suppliers. It's
worrying. That's available on the
terminal and bloomberg.com.
>> Yeah, let's check in some other stories
that we're tracking for you today.
OpenAI has filed confidentially for an
IPO [music] in a bid to tap public
markets to fund ambitious growth plans.
Sources say it's working [music] with
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley on a
potential listing as soon as this year.
We've also learned that OpenAI [music]
is planning a tender sale of its shares
to provide liquidity to employees in
[music] the coming weeks. Sources say
SpaceX's initial public offering is well
overs subscribed with multiple
institutional investors placing orders
for about $10 billion or more of shares.
The company is offering some 555 million
shares [music] at a fixed price of $135
each, which would raise about 75
billion. That would make this the
biggest IPO ever, topping Saudi [music]
Aramco in 2019.
>> Well, let's pivot to SpaceX. It plans to
use the proceeds to expand its AI and
rocket infrastructure. Bloomberg's Ed
Lello explains.
>> Ignition.
>> Elon Musk wants to build the
infrastructure for AI in space and he's
asking investors to help pay for it. The
rocket satellite and now AI company
wants to raise around $75 billion in
what will be the largest IPO in history.
SpaceX is our is probably our greatest
uh you know commercial space company.
Hands down.
>> It will enable the next iteration of
what we want to see [music] as the space
industry continues to grow.
>> This isn't just a space story anymore
after folding in Musk's AI startup XAI.
Earlier this year, investors buying into
SpaceX are also buying into the future
potential of Grock AI models and Musk's
vision for massive computing
infrastructure. That ambition comes with
a hefty price tag. New filings shows
SpaceX's AI business, as in XAI, lost
nearly $6 billion last year and billions
at the start of this year as money
poured into computing power and
infrastructure [music] to compete with
OpenAI and Anthropic. Still, SpaceX has
major advantages. Starlink has become a
powerful cash generator through its
satellite internet business. While the
company's launch operations continue to
secure billions in government [music]
and private contracts.
>> What people need to realize about this
company is it's the it isn't just a
little bit ahead of the entire launch
industry on planet Earth. It's orders of
magnitude ahead.
>> And now Wall Street wants in. Goldman
Sachs, Morgan Stanley, and JP Morgan
leading more than 20 banks working on
the offering. And Musk negotiated record
low fees. But the IPO also raises big
questions like whether investors are
comfortable betting not just on Musk's
original vision of making humanity a
multilanetary species and getting to
Mars, but on a future combining rockets,
AI, and social media into one sprawling
empire. And so what we're buying is the
next, you know, the global economy, you
know, 2.0 and 3.0 as we look at buying
into into SpaceX. [music]
>> If that happens, SpaceX could redefine
what the modern public company looks
like on Earth and in space.
All right, we're checking when it comes
[music] to markets in Hong Kong today.
in particular when it comes to some of
these companies uh that have been put a
reput back into this Pentagon blacklist.
Uh really what we heard from the
Pentagon was that accusing some of these
companies of of aiding the Chinese
military. Of course, this was something
that we brought back months ago. It
seems like that's coming back in the
fray here today. So, you are seeing
Alibaba, Costco shipping, Wooi. Uh they
are one of the few that have one of
dozens that have been added to that list
here today. Uh all falling here this
morning. Um, so certainly that's one
thing to watch here and perhaps that's
why we're not quite seeing, you know,
Hong Kong markets recovering as much as
you're seeing for the rest of of of Asia
here today. Hang is still lower by a
bit.
>> And they're broader implications. What
does this do to the so-called dant that
was sort of reached between Donald Trump
and Xiinping just what was it 3 weeks
ago? Yeah,
>> four weeks ago. I it's all a blur to me
right now. But again, it's the timing is
interesting because that list of Chinese
companies on the Pentagon list came out
very briefly in February, then was taken
down. Obviously, February was right
before or right as she and Trump were
planning that visit. Uh now it's up.
>> So you got to wonder is it just
geopolitical posturing at this point?
What does it mean in terms of their
business operations? I think the sell
side has come out and said look in terms
of what this could mean for their
earnings and overall these companies may
not be too much could be limited impact
here as well. And I think as as our Adam
Ferrar from Lubber economics says at
this point it still looks like it's it's
it's it looks like symbolic in some ways
here but also you know they're not as
bad as sanctions.
>> No legal repercussions.
>> No legal repercussions. That's a good
one to know.
>> Hey, we're going to be there tomorrow.
>> Look at all these people coming to
Bloomberg Invest, right? So we were
talking a lot of key themes when it
comes to Hong Kong. Obviously we're
we're starting off and kicking off the
year in the first quarter with uh pretty
great growth here. and whether this
momentum can continue. That certainly is
going to be the key question I'm going
to be asking Paul Chan, the financial
secretary on stage. What about you?
>> Strong IPO pipeline, no doubt. Uh the
wealth is the number one wealth hub in
the world, right? Overtaking
Switzerland, but is that threatened by
the regulations that are coming from
Beijing on crossber flows and crackdowns
on where money is coming from and
sources of income? I'm going to be
talking to Clara Chan, Hong Kong
Investment Corporation, and talk about
where Hong Kong is strategically
investing.
>> Yeah. I mean whether these curbs in some
ways impact not just you know brokerages
but how far does it go and really
impacting wealth as you mentioned maybe
the IPO market even the property market
uh here in Hong Kong. So lots to delve
into here at Bloomberg [music] Invest.
We'll be there
>> in the field taking the China show out.
This is Bloomberg.